The mixer battery, ingenious invention, and yet something that seems to have gone past England.
You want Americans coming over and asking why our taps look like something from the 1940s.
And even here, in my parents' bathroom, I visit my parents this weekend and they
just got a new bathroom, there are separate hot and cold taps.
And there are all sorts of theories as to why it is, they typically turn around
"We're Brits", "Stiff Tops" and "We Don't Need Mixing Batteries. We've never had them".
And it is partly true, but it is also about how houses in England were built after World War II.
In most old English houses there is a cold water tank in the attic. It is reasonably large, about 250 liters,
and it fills up a hot water tank used for central heating,
and for hot water in the bathroom, in the kitchen and so on.
But the problem is that it may not be quite healthy drinking water. For the cold water container maybe,
in some houses that have not been maintained, may have been exposed to the elements, or sand to, or covered
in iron dust, or, in a specific case you can read about, have some dead rats floating around in it.
That water may not be technically drinkable. And according to the rules, I checked the rules,
It is not considered for drinking water. It cold in return, at least in the kitchen, and sometimes
in the bathroom too, the cold water comes directly from the waterworks. It is termed as drinkable.
So here it comes: You have cold, sure, the rules call it "healthy", drinking water, and you have
almost certainly safe but not technically, drinkable, hot water.
And the two should never be mixed. If you have a mixer battery, it can warm water at worst
cases when there is a backflow valve fault and the waterworks turn off, return
through all the systems, and pollute the rest of the street or the rest of it
water system. It is illegal and therefore there is no mixer battery. You do not mix the currents. Nowadays,
It is a little different. This house got its hot water tank removed a few months ago. The ceiling is now just a big one
empty room again. And there is some very modern, shiny piece of technology underneath that warms up the water
as required. All new houses are being built like this. If they have mixed batteries, that's fine, but ...
I remember as a kid knowing "never drink from the hot tap". And it got stuck. Even now, if there is a mixer battery
And I want to drink from it, I let the water run for a few seconds just to make sure something potentially uncertain
have come out. Even now, old habits are hard to discard. And sometimes these things just feel a little safer.